---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/66-courses/66-11-huma-1000-f/20220301163942-stance/","dgHomeLink":true,"dgPassFrontmatter":false}
---


# Stance

## Identifying

Argumentative essays must clearly express a _stance_ or _position_ in response to an essay prompt. Read the essay prompt below and then answer the five questions. These will help you identify and understand stances.

> Winston Churchill described liberal democracy as superior to all other systems of government. Was Churchill right? Argue for or against this statement using what you have learned from the course to support your view.

1. Liberal democracy is generally the most desirable form of governance because it offers citizens greater freedoms than other systems of governance.
   1. This response to the essay prompt expresses a ==clear stance with a supporting reason==
   2. **Yes**, the writer clearly expresses a stance and supports it with a general reason. This is a good example of a stance statement.
2. This essay will compare two types of government to seek to demonstrate that liberal democracy is not necessarily the most progressive form of government.
   1. This response to the essay prompt does not address the essay prompt
   2. **No**, this response does address the essay prompt, even though its main purpose is to give an outline of how the stance will be expressed in the essay.
   3. Correct Answer – ==unsatisfactorily expresses a stance==.
3. It is believed that democracies provide more equitable forms of governance.
   1. This response to the essay prompt ==gives a very unclear stance==
   2. **Yes**, the response does contain a stance but we do not know whose stance it is. Do **not** express _your_ stance with the passive voice.
4. The decline of authoritarian states and subsequent rise of liberal ones has immeasurably increased the liberties of citizens living in democracies.
   1. This response to the essay prompt offers a stance that is too opinionated
   2. **No**, it is perfectly acceptable to use powerful language in the stance statement as long as this is in academic style and not incautious.
   3. Correct Answer – ==very specific stance with a major argument==
5. The _Freedom House 2014_ report observed a positive increase in the number of democracies to 114, but expressed concern about the rise of authoritarianism in governments.
   1. This response to the essay prompt provides ==data related to the topic but no writer's stance==
   2. **Yes**, the data relate to the topic and may support the writer's stance. However, the stance would normally be expressed _before_ supporting it with data.

## Links
